need and use of the go compiler image (#1890)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/2.0.x/go.md

> Kong 2.0 introduces support for plugins written in Go.

Author: done

> Until now, Lua was the only language supported for writing Kong plugins, and continues to be the main way to develop and extend Kong.  The addition of Go plugin support allows Kong users to tap into the Go ecosystem.  For example, there are databases like MS-SQLServer that don't have good client libraries for Lua, but are well supported in Go.  A Go plugin could directly access such a server without having to pass through Kong's Lua code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until Kong 2.0, Lua was the only language supported for writing Kong plugins, and continues to be the main way to develop and extend Kong. The addition of Go plugin support allows Kong users to tap into the Go ecosystem. For example, there are databases like MS SQL Server that don't have good client libraries for Lua, but are well supported in Go. A Go plugin could directly access such a server without having to pass through Kong's Lua code.
```

Golang development is well known for its low entry barrier and ease of deployment; even complex programs written in Go might be distributed as a single executable that you can copy anywhere and run directly.  To make this possible, the compiler generates statically linked executables by default.  A significant drawback of this choice is that it makes very difficult to extend a "finished" Go program.  There are several ways around this limitation, but most of them involve some form of interprocess communication.  Since this is really well supported by the language and basic libraries, it's usually a very good solution; but this isn't always the case.

The extension strategy chosen for Kong is one very common in other languages: a plugin is a dynamically loaded module.  To allow this, the compiler no longer produces fully static programs, now the executable and plugins depend on the system libraries.

This is a relatively recent feature in Golang, and has some rough edges in tooling and deployability.  In particular, it's essential that the loading executable (`go-pluginserver` in our case) and the plugins have exactly the same linking behaviour.  This involves at least:

> * The same version of any common library, including:

Author: a dynamically linked program (both the executable and the plugin) includes references to other libraries (enumerated here), written by the compiler.

The executable and plugin are compiled separately (and by different persons on different machines), but to be able to load the plugin, those references must be exactly identical.

thus, the libraries present when compiling the plugin must be exactly the same version as those present when the executable was compiled.

unlike other languages, there's no "matching version" (6.2.4b matches 6.2.3g, or any 6.2.xx).  they must be exactly the same.  (6.4.2b must be 6.4.2b and not 6.4.2a)

> * The same version of any common library, including:

Reviewer: In that case, just a slight rephrasing to "The same versions of any common libraries" will work.

    * our `Kong/go-pdk`.
    * all standard Go libraries (like `fmt`, `rpc`, `reflect`, etc)
    * OS libraries, like `libpthread`, `libc`, `ld-xxxx`, etc.

> * the exact same version of the Go compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A matching version of the Go compiler
```

Reviewer: New suggestion based on comment above:
```suggestion
* The exact same version of the Go compiler
```

> * the same Go environment variables like `$GOROOT` and `$GOPATH`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go environment variables set to the same values across all of the above (e.g. `$GOROOT` and `$GOPATH`)
```
Same as what? I put "all of the above" in the suggestion, please change if that's wrong.

> The first point is somewhat alleviated with `go.mod` dependency management, but that introduces more complex issues on the environment variables requirement.

Reviewer: Is this referring to line 37? I would be more explicit here, eg:
```suggestion
Common library versions are partially covered with `go.mod` dependency management, but that introduces more complex issues for the environment variables requirement.
```
What's the solution/recommendation? Are we just telling users that this is an existing problem and there's nothing they can do? Or are you implying that they shouldn't use go.mod dependency management?

Author: the `go.mod` feature is relatively recent and helps a lot for source-level compatibility; but it doesn't solve plugin library compatibility.  we do include .mod files, but it doesn't do any difference when Kong tries to load a user-compiled plugin.   That's why we're providing the whole compiling environment in this docker image.

> The last point, `$GOPATH` is a real problem, not only because one of the recommended patterns is `$HOME/go`, which includes the developer's username in their own system, but also because it's common that production builds (Dockerfiles, build scripts, CI/CD systems) use a very different pattern.

Reviewer: Try to avoid referring to the order of bullet points in a list, since they could change in subsequent doc edits:
```suggestion
The biggest problem is the environment variable `$GOPATH`, not only because one of the recommended patterns is `$HOME/go`, which includes the developer's username in their own system, but also because production builds (e.g. Dockerfiles, build scripts, CI/CD systems) commonly use a different pattern.
```

Author: i'd prefer not to say "the biggest problem", because it makes it sound like if only this could be solved (and it does seem easy; variables can be tweaked, after all), the rest would be easy.

maybe just "A big part of the problem is the environment variable...." ?

> To guarantee this consistency, the `kong/go-plugin-tool` is used as a wrapper to the Go compiler.  Kong distribution packages and images use it to compile the included `go-pluginserver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To guarantee consistency, the `kong/go-plugin-tool` is used as a wrapper to the Go compiler. Kong distribution packages and images use it to compile the included `go-pluginserver`.
```

Reviewer: Does this guarantee consistency among all of the versions and env settings listed above?

Author: it gives the user the exact same compiler, libraries, and environment used to compile the pluginserver included in the main Kong images.

in fact, we're no longer installing a go compiler to build it, we use this image

### Development process

To write a Kong plugin in Go, you need to:

* Define a structure type to hold configuration.
* Write a `New()` function to create instances of your structure.
* Add methods on that structure to handle events.

> * Compile like: `docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/plugins kong/go-plugin-tool:<version> build <source>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Compile using: `docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/plugins kong/go-plugin-tool:<version> build <source>`.
```
